---
title: "Partitioned Finite Element Method for port-Hamiltonian systems with Boundary Damping: Anisotropic Heterogeneous 2D wave equations"
collection: publications
category: conferences
permalink: /publication/2019-05-21-conf-CPDE
date: 2019-05-21
venue: "3rd IFAC Workshop on Control of Systems Governed by Partial Differential Equations"
bibtexurl: /files/bibtex/2019-CPDE.bib
slidesurl: /files/slides/2019-CPDE.pdf
paperurl: /files/proceedings/2019-CPDE.pdf
citation: "Serhani Anass, Matignon Denis, Haine Ghislain (2019) <i>Partitioned Finite Element Method for port-Hamiltonian systems with Boundary Damping: Anisotropic Heterogeneous 2D wave equations.</i> IFAC-PapersOnLine 52(2):96–101. Oaxaca, Mexico."
doi: "10.1016/j.ifacol.2019.08.017"
---

A 2D wave equation with boundary damping of impedance type can be recast into an infinite-dimensional port-Hamiltonian system (pHs) with an appropriate feedback law, where the structure operator J is formally skew-symmetric. It is known that the underlying semigroup proves dissipative, even though no dissipation operator R is to be found in the pHs model. The Partitioned Finite Element Method (PFEM) introduced in Cardoso-Ribeiro et al. (2018), is structure-preserving and provides a natural way to discretize such systems. It gives rise to a non null symmetric matrix R. Moreover, since this matrix accounts for boundary damping, its rank is very low: only the basis functions at the boundary have an influence. Lastly, this matrix can be factorized out when considering the boundary condition as a feedback law for the pHs, involving the impedance parameter. Note that pHs - as open system - is used here as a tool to accurately discretize the wave equation with boundary damping as a closed system. In the worked-out numerical examples in 2D, the isotropic and homogeneous case is presented and the influence of the impedance is assessed; then, an anisotropic and heterogeneous wave equation with space-varying impedance at the boundary is investigated.
